# Python functions

Define a function using the `def` keyword. Once defined, it can be called (or executed) by using the function name and a pair of brackets.

```python
def greet():
    name = input("Enter your name: ")
    print(f"Hello, {name}!")


greet()
```

> Could show small callouts beside each section of the shown code sample.
> E.g. beside `def greet()` show "Defining the function name"
> Then beside the function body, show "Function body, will run when we execute the function".
> Then beside `greet()`, show "Executing the function starts the function body"
> Highlight the difference in indentation level with a callout.
> Signal that when we have less indentation, we exit the function.


## The `return` keyword

By default, functions return `None`.

Example:

```python
def greet():
    pass  # Do nothing


# print the function's return value
print(greet())  # None
```

- `pass` is a keyword which means "do nothing". It's necessary since a function needs a body.
- you can control what a function returns using the `return` keyword.

Example:

```python
def greet_user():
    name = "John Doe"
    return f"Hello, {name}!"

greeting = greet()
print(greeting)  # John Doe
```

A function can return any value.

## Arguments and parameters

Functions can accept values from the caller, and return a value in their place.

```py
def greet(name):
    return f"Hello, {name}

greeting = greet("Rolf Smith")
print(greeting)  # Hello, Rolf Smith
```

> Here we could have a diagram showing the flow of data using arrows.
> From the string "Rolf Smith" to the function, then through the return value to the `greeting` variable.

## Number of parameters

A function can have any number of parameters.

For example:

```python
def greet(name, age):
    return f"{name} is {age} years old!"
```

## Named arguments

If you want to be specific about what arguments you pass to parameters, use named arguments.

Example:

```python
def greet(name, age):
    return f"{name} is {age} years old!"

print(greet(name="John Doe", age=31))
```

## Default parameter values

Parameters can have default values:

```python
def greet(name="John Doe"):
    return f"Hello, {name}!"


print(greet())  # Hello, John Doe!
print(greet("Rolf Smith"))  # Hello, Rolf Smith
```

When passing an argument to the function, the default parameter value will be overwritten by the given argument.

If the function has a mix of normal and default parameters, the default parameters have to be passed last.

Correct:

```python
def greet(age, name="John Doe"):
    return f"{name} is {age} years old!"


print(greet(32))
```

Incorrect:

```python
def greet(name="John Doe", age):
    return f"{name} is {age} years old!"


print(greet(32))
```

Read more about Python functions [here](https://www.teclado.com/30-days-of-python/python-30-day-12-functions).

# Python Lambda Expressions

- Lambda expressions are an alternative syntax for defining simple functions.

Example: `lambda name: f"Hello, {name}"`

- No name
- Can be assigned to a variable
- Can be difficult to read

Calling a lambda inline requires multiple pairs of brackets:

```python
result = (lambda x, y: x + y)(15, 3)
```

# First Class Functions

- Functions in Python are "first class citizens".
- They can be stored in data structures, passed as arguments, and stored in variables.

Example:

```python
def avg(*args):
    return sum(args) / len(args)


operations = {
    "average": avg,
    "total": sum,
    "top": max
}

# We can also use associations to get a function from the dictionary.
selection = "average"
operation = operations[selection]
operation() # This is acts the same as simply calling avg()
```


Read more about lambda expressions and first-class functions [here](https://www.teclado.com/30-days-of-python/python-30-day-16-lambda-expressions).